Our application at the moment has one problem.
When I open that modal sheet and I try to enter something here, you see that this gets cleared, the
title gets cleared as soon as I click into the amount, and if I click into the amount into the title
now the amount gets cleared.
So something's wrong here, by the way.
Of course, our amount is also a bit overlapped by the keyboard.
If we enter something into the title and that's something we'll fix later.
Also, if you would rotate the device into landscape, you wouldn't really be able to work with that.
But let's take care about this later once we learn how to build more responsive user interfaces.
For the moment, let's fix that issue of our data getting lost when we well click into the other fields.
The fix is simple.
You need to change new transaction.
So this widget which renders these inputs from a stateless into a state full widget.
Even though we're not calling that state in here, that internally changes something for Flutter because
the state object in the end is treated differently than a widget object.
It's basically maintained and not rebuilt as often easily, and therefore you should convert new transaction
here to a stateful widget.
And thanks to the refactoring syntax that all is done automatically.
And now if you reload your application with that saved, if you now open that again, now here we can
enter something and now the data is kept and we can add this and see our new transaction here, which
is of course pretty convenient.
Now, just to clarify and make it clear why we need to make this change to a stateful widget, it is
related to what Flutter does internally.
It reevaluates widgets from time to time.
For example, if a parent widget changes and I'll dive deeper into how Flutter evaluates your app and
when something is re-evaluated later in the course, no worries.
But from time to time, Flutter does that.
And for a state less widget, a widget being re-evaluated means that any internally stored data is reset,
is lost.
That's why we lose our user input in a stateless widget because whenever it is re-evaluated by flutter,
for whatever reason we lose the state that is currently stored in there.
We lose our data that's stored in there.
And for a state full widget that's different there we have that separate state object, that state class,
and whilst the widget they are also would be reevaluated by flutter, the state kind of is detached
from this and data stored in that state will not be lost if the widget that belongs to it is reevaluated
by flutter.
So we have a separation of data and the UI you could say, and therefore we can persist data.
And it's not lost when something changes on the screen or when Flutter decides that it wants to reevaluate
that widget.
That's why our data is then persistent, and that's why we need a stateful widget here.
Now internally here in new transaction, there's also one important change we still get at transaction
as an argument here and that's inside of our widget.
Right at transaction is a property in our widget, not in the state object but in the widget.
And it needs to be there because we need to define it or we need to accept it on the constructor of
the widget, not on the constructor of the state, because the state is constructed here with the help
of create state and that's inside of the widget.
So to receive something, some data in the widget from outside, which is the case here, we receive
a pointer at the add new transaction function.
We need to accept it on the constructor of the widget.
The problem is that I want to use this function from inside the state object thereafter and not inside
my widget.
And these are two different classes.
Technically.
Thankfully, Flutter establishes a connection and gives us a special property inside of our state class.
It gives us this widget property and this refactoring step automatically added it.
With Widget Dot, you can access the properties and methods of your widget class inside of your state
class.
So with widget dot add x, I can access to add htc's property, which is this function reference I get
even though I'm technically in a different class.
That's important widget.
That is a special property we haven't seen before.
It has to be named widget and it's only available in your state classes.
It gives you access to the connected widget.
And with that we now also fix that issue of the bottom seed clearing our inputs when we type in there.
Now, when everything we can do is that when we enter a new transaction here, that we actually also
close the bottom sheet as soon as we confirm it, and we don't have to close it manually.
And doing that is pretty straightforward here in submit data, after calling add tax, you can call
navigator off context pop.
Now that's something we haven't seen before.
The navigator is also something I'll have a way closer look at in the navigation section of this course.
It's built into Flutter and it can do a lot of awesome stuff here.
We simply use its pop method to basically close the topmost screen that is displayed, and that is that
modal sheet if it's opened.
So that closes that modal sheet by popping it off.
And more on that and what it does in detail in a later section of context here is required to get access
to the right navigator or to give the navigator some metadata and context here.
Just like widget is a special property which is available class white in your state class here.
Even though you never defined a property named context, it's made available because we extend state.
So it's basically like widget.
It's a special property that is available and that in this case gives you access to the context of your
widget widget, gives you access to the class itself, to its properties and so on.
Context gives you access to the context related to your widget.
More on all of that later.
With that, however, we now add the functionality that we can automatically oops, that we can automatically
close our bottom modal sheet once we're done.
So if I now add my new shoes here, which let's say cost 99.99, now you see that all the clothes demolished
with that.
Let's continue with our app and let's again turn our heads towards styling.